<h1>Research Code Project</h1>
Created By: Olaoluwa Adewoye

Core aspects of code was based off of demonstration here: 
https://www.kaggle.com/code/essammohamed4320/intrusion-detection-system-with-ml-dl

This is a small document to state the purpose of this 
project and how this code works and should be run.

<h2>Part 1: Objective</h2>

In a nutshell, this program tests the following algorithms:
Support Vector Machines, K-Nearest Neighbor, Random Forest,
and Multilayer Perceptron. With a few tweaks, however, this
program can be made to test any classifier within the 
Sci-Kit Learn package.

Algorithms are tested against the NSL-KDD dataset, which 
holds a curated set of packet records. Records are drawn
from both normal and malicious traffic. The goal is for
each algorithm to be able to differentiate between the two
types of traffic, a key function of anomaly detection.

The other objective of this program is to compare and
contrast normal dataset usage compared to the incorporation
of Principal Component Analysis, or PCA. PCA (upon 
specification of a number) reduces the number of features
or attributes to a smaller amount of new attributes called 
"Principal Components". 

Both objectives serve the ultimate endgame of this
research, which is to integrate anomaly detection into
network protection in a Big Data setting. If PCA can be
applied while maintaining high accuracy and low loss,
it can lighten the computation needed on each individual
record, and overall make it more feasible to incorporate
machine learning algorithms.

<h2>Part 2: How to use</h2>

The program runs from Main.py. The outcome of the program
should be-
<ul>Several graphs opening during runtime</ul>
<ul>
    A folder named "Results" containing data generated
    from the program running. Data will be organized by
    number. For example, all data generated in "Result1"
    belongs to the same instance of running the program.
</ul>

If you do not already see the results' folder, it will be
generated during the program so don't worry. In addition,
seeing a results' folder already existing may mean old data
is there. Delete the folder if you do not wish to use it, 
but keeping it will also not harm the program. 

<h2>Part 3: Key files</h2>

KDDTest+.txt - text file containing the dataset. If this 
is accidentally deleted or damaged, use the zip file to 
place it back.

Main.py - file to run to control program. In current state,
It will measure results for algorithms on both the normal
and PCA version of the training/testing sets.

AlgTest.py - file that contains the code needed to do tests
for each individual machine learning algorithm.

<h2>Part 4: How to interpret Results folder</h2>

Use this section for after running the program at least
once.

The "Results" folder is where all data is stored. Opening 
it reveals a list of further folders, differentiated by
number. Each number represents a unique time the program
was run. 

Opening one of these folders reveals two new folders and
one file. "Normal" is the folder that contains the data 
for training on pre-processed data without PCA. "PCA" is
the folder that contains the data for training on
pre-processed data with PCA. The file "results.xlsx"
contains rough tables of the data. The first table is 
normal, and the second is PCA.

Within each folder are the confusion matrixes and tables
generated by the program.
